# After reboot there is a message "NMI watchdog: Shutting down hard lockup detector on all cpus" What does this mean?

- Comments
- Helpful6
- Get notified when this content is updated.FollowPlease wait...


## Get notified when this content is updated.

Please wait...


# After reboot there is a message "NMI watchdog: Shutting down hard lockup detector on all cpus" What does this mean?

- English
- Machine Translations
- Chinese
- Chinese, Traditional
- French
- German
- Italian
- Japanese
- Korean
- Portuguese
- Russian
- Spanish


## Environment

- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7
- Possibly a virtual machine


## Issue

- After reboot I see the following messages:


```
Jan 31 18:16:19 node1 kernel: NMI watchdog: disabled (cpu0): hardware events not enabled
Jan 31 18:16:19 node1 kernel: NMI watchdog: Shutting down hard lockup detector on all cpus
```

`Jan 31 18:16:19 node1 kernel: NMI watchdog: disabled (cpu0): hardware events not enabled
Jan 31 18:16:19 node1 kernel: NMI watchdog: Shutting down hard lockup detector on all cpus`
## Resolution

- The system is reporting that the hard lockup detection functionality of the kernel was disabled.
- This is the preferred configuration on guest virtual machines due to reduced reliability and elevated risk of false-positive reports.
- If the VM is facing some other issue such as performance degradation or hangs, open a service request with Red Hat Technical Support and attempt to capture vmcore using sysrq or snapshot if you are attempting to reboot the system.

The system is reporting that the hard lockup detection functionality of the kernel was disabled.

This is the preferred configuration on guest virtual machines due to reduced reliability and elevated risk of false-positive reports.

If the VM is facing some other issue such as performance degradation or hangs, open a service request with Red Hat Technical Support and attempt to capture vmcore using sysrq or snapshot if you are attempting to reboot the system.

- Product(s)
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux

- Component
- kernel

- Category
- Troubleshoot

- Tags
- kernel
- virtualization

This solution is part of Red Hat’s fast-track publication program, providing a huge library of solutions that Red Hat engineers have created while supporting our customers. To give you the knowledge you need the instant it becomes available, these articles may be presented in a raw and unedited form.


## Was this helpful?


## Get notified when this content is updated

Please wait...


## Comments

