# After enabling IOMMU (intel_iommu=on) for VFIO/DPDK use, server starts randomly crashing on boot

- Comments
- Helpful1
- Get notified when this content is updated.FollowPlease wait...


## Get notified when this content is updated.

Please wait...


# After enabling IOMMU (intel_iommu=on) for VFIO/DPDK use, server starts randomly crashing on boot

- English
- Machine Translations
- Chinese
- Chinese, Traditional
- French
- German
- Italian
- Japanese
- Korean
- Portuguese
- Russian
- Spanish


## Environment

- Red Hat OpenStack Platform 10.0
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.4
- Server featuring Intel QuickData Technology (ioatdmamodule)


## Issue

After enabling IOMMU (intel_iommu=on) for VFIO/DPDK use, the server starts crashing on boot with different errors (ranging from structure sanity check failures to NULL pointer references) on random kernel code paths, usually leading to a hard lockup where the crashkernel can't be triggered to generate a vmcore.


## Resolution

There's a bugzilla ticket for tracking this issue:

- https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1568279

This particular issue has been linked to the presence of theioatdmamodule (which enablesIntel QuickData Technology), so it's possible to workaround the issue by blacklisting this module:


```
cat << EOF >> /etc/modprobe.d/local-blacklist.conf
blacklist ioatdma
install ioatdma /bin/false
EOF
```

`cat << EOF >> /etc/modprobe.d/local-blacklist.conf
blacklist ioatdma
install ioatdma /bin/false
EOF`
## Diagnostic Steps

The main characteristics of this issue are:

- Most boot attempts fail with different errors (ranging from structure sanity check failures to NULL pointer references) at random kernel code paths and/or hard lockups.
- The presence of theintel_iommu=onoption in the kernel command line.
- The server featuresIntel QuickData Technology.
- The moduleioatdmawas loaded when the kernel crashed.
- After blacklisting theioatdmamodule, the problem is no longer reproducible.

- Product(s)
- Red Hat OpenStack Platform
- Red Hat Virtualization
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux

- Component
- kernel

- Category
- Troubleshoot

This solution is part of Red Hat’s fast-track publication program, providing a huge library of solutions that Red Hat engineers have created while supporting our customers. To give you the knowledge you need the instant it becomes available, these articles may be presented in a raw and unedited form.


## Was this helpful?


## Get notified when this content is updated

Please wait...


## Comments

