# NMI watchdog has false positive when turbo mode is enabled

- Comments
- Helpful1
- Get notified when this content is updated.FollowPlease wait...


## Get notified when this content is updated.

Please wait...


# NMI watchdog has false positive when turbo mode is enabled

- English
- Machine Translations
- Chinese
- Chinese, Traditional
- French
- German
- Italian
- Japanese
- Korean
- Portuguese
- Russian
- Spanish


## Environment

- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.0
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.1
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.2
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.3
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.4


## Issue

- Does RHEL 7 haveCONFIG_HARDLOCKUP_CHECK_TIMESTAMPenabled?
- With Intel Turbo mode enabled, seeinghardlockuppanics in RHEL 7.4 (or earlier)?

`CONFIG_HARDLOCKUP_CHECK_TIMESTAMP``hardlockup`
## Resolution

Upgrade tokernel-3.10.0-862.el7released via RHEL 7.5 andRHSA-2018:1062(or newer).  Which per the upstream commit comments:

`kernel-3.10.0-862.el7`Implement a low pass filter, which checks the perf/NMI period against kernel time. If the perf/NMI fires before 4/5 of the watchdog period has elapsed then the event is ignored and postponed to the next perf/NMI.


## Root Cause

Per upstream commit comments:

The hardlockup detector on x86 uses a performance counter based on unhalted CPU cycles and a periodic hrtimer. The hrtimer period is about 2/5 of the performance counter period, so the hrtimer should fire 2-3 times before the performance counter NMI fires. The NMI code checks whether the hrtimer fired since the last invocation. If not, it assumess a hard lockup.

The calculation of those periods is based on the nominal CPU frequency. Turbo modes increase the CPU clock frequency and therefore shorten the period of the perf/NMI watchdog. With extreme Turbo-modes (3x nominal frequency) the perf/NMI period is shorter than the hrtimer period which leads to false positives.


## Diagnostic Steps

Disclaimer:Links contained herein to external  website(s) are provided for convenience only. Red Hat has not reviewed  the links and is not responsible for the content or its availability.  The inclusion of any link to an external website does not imply  endorsement by Red Hat of the website or their entities, products or  services. You agree that Red Hat is not responsible or liable for any  loss or expenses that may result due to your use of (or reliance on) the  external site or content.

- Upstream commit 7edaeb6kernel/watchdog: Prevent false positives with turbo modes
- RHEL 7.5 patch via Red Hat Customer PortalSource Code Browser

Upstream commit 7edaeb6kernel/watchdog: Prevent false positives with turbo modes

RHEL 7.5 patch via Red Hat Customer PortalSource Code Browser

- Product(s)
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux

- Component
- kernel

- Category
- Supportability

- Tags
- rhel
- vmcore

This solution is part of Red Hat’s fast-track publication program, providing a huge library of solutions that Red Hat engineers have created while supporting our customers. To give you the knowledge you need the instant it becomes available, these articles may be presented in a raw and unedited form.


## Was this helpful?


## Get notified when this content is updated

Please wait...


## Comments

