# "NMI watchdog: disabled (cpu0): hardware events not enabled" is shown

- Comments
- Helpful5
- Get notified when this content is updated.FollowPlease wait...


## Get notified when this content is updated.

Please wait...


# "NMI watchdog: disabled (cpu0): hardware events not enabled" is shown

- English
- Japanese
- Machine Translations
- Chinese
- Chinese, Traditional
- French
- German
- Italian
- Japanese
- Korean
- Portuguese
- Russian
- Spanish


## Environment

- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7


## Issue

- After updatingkernel.watchdog_threshsysctl value, the following messages is shown.

`kernel.watchdog_thresh`
```
NMI watchdog: disabled (cpu0): hardware events not enabled
```

`NMI watchdog: disabled (cpu0): hardware events not enabled`
## Resolution

The message depends on the hardware. Especially, the message can be ignored on a virtual machine.


## Root Cause

- The message indicates that the PMU (Performance Monitoring Unit) of the hardware does not have an event counter to count cpu cycles. So periodic NMI cannot be enabled, and thewatchdogcannot detect thehard lockup.

`watchdog``hard lockup`- Product(s)
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux

- Component
- kernel

- Category
- Learn more

- Tags
- kernel
- rhel_7

This solution is part of Red Hat’s fast-track publication program, providing a huge library of solutions that Red Hat engineers have created while supporting our customers. To give you the knowledge you need the instant it becomes available, these articles may be presented in a raw and unedited form.


## Was this helpful?


## Get notified when this content is updated

Please wait...


## Comments

