# Experiencing random freezes with canary errors in /var/log/messages

- Comments
- Helpful16
- Get notified when this content is updated.FollowPlease wait...


## Get notified when this content is updated.

Please wait...


# Experiencing random freezes with canary errors in /var/log/messages

- Chinese
- English
- Japanese
- Machine Translations
- Chinese
- Chinese, Traditional
- French
- German
- Italian
- Japanese
- Korean
- Portuguese
- Russian
- Spanish


## Environment

- Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)


## Issue

- Experiencing random freezes with canary errors in messages file. The error in the/var/log/messages fileis:

`/var/log/messages file`
```
rtkit-daemon[1145]: The canary thread is apparently starving. Taking action.
rtkit-daemon[1145]: Demoting known real-time threads.
```

`rtkit-daemon[1145]: The canary thread is apparently starving. Taking action.
rtkit-daemon[1145]: Demoting known real-time threads.`
## Resolution

The message means that one or both of the threads didn't run within the required time frame. There is no simple resolution when you see this message. Investigating the issue requires a significant amount of work and data to determine what was happening on the system. Although sometimes it may be possible if you only have basic information available, e.g. only a sosreport, it is highly unlikely that the cause will be determined.

To investigate the issue, you should collect following information at least:

- If the system is a VM, ensure that the hypervisor is regularly scheduling the vCPUs of the guest and that it has not been starved of resources. Please note that for 3rd party hypervisors running RHEL instances - Red Hat may ask for confirmation or proof that the vCPUs are being scheduled regularly - if asked you must be able to supply this information.
- For bare metal and VMs check the following:sar output - ensure that no single CPU is spending an excessive amount of CPU time in any of %sys, %irq, or %softPlease note that the default sar interval run by cron is 10 minutes. It won't be useful for this issue. You need to run another sar command separately to get the data in shorter interval like 1 second or else.Look at the output of the following command:Rawps -eo pid,tid,class,rtprio,ni,pri,psr,pcpu,stat,wchan:30,command determine if there are any processes running with real-time priority that should not be doing so. If you find any non-operating system programs running with real-time priority determine if they should be and if they are consuming excessive CPU time (use top).
- If the random freezes are long enough to trigger the soft or hard lockup detectors consider configuring the system to panic. You must first setup kdump and then any resulting vmcore can be analysed to determine what the issue is. Please note that in some cases if the cause of the issue ends before the system panics any evidence of what happened may no longer be present in the vmcore generated.

If the system is a VM, ensure that the hypervisor is regularly scheduling the vCPUs of the guest and that it has not been starved of resources. Please note that for 3rd party hypervisors running RHEL instances - Red Hat may ask for confirmation or proof that the vCPUs are being scheduled regularly - if asked you must be able to supply this information.

For bare metal and VMs check the following:

- sar output - ensure that no single CPU is spending an excessive amount of CPU time in any of %sys, %irq, or %softPlease note that the default sar interval run by cron is 10 minutes. It won't be useful for this issue. You need to run another sar command separately to get the data in shorter interval like 1 second or else.
- Look at the output of the following command:Rawps -eo pid,tid,class,rtprio,ni,pri,psr,pcpu,stat,wchan:30,comm

Look at the output of the following command:


```
ps -eo pid,tid,class,rtprio,ni,pri,psr,pcpu,stat,wchan:30,comm
```

`ps -eo pid,tid,class,rtprio,ni,pri,psr,pcpu,stat,wchan:30,comm`and determine if there are any processes running with real-time priority that should not be doing so. If you find any non-operating system programs running with real-time priority determine if they should be and if they are consuming excessive CPU time (use top).

If the random freezes are long enough to trigger the soft or hard lockup detectors consider configuring the system to panic. You must first setup kdump and then any resulting vmcore can be analysed to determine what the issue is. Please note that in some cases if the cause of the issue ends before the system panics any evidence of what happened may no longer be present in the vmcore generated.


## Root Cause

The root cause is not within the rtkit daemon itself, when these messages are logged by rtkit that is an indication of a problem somewhere else.

The rtkit-daemon creates a canary thread and a watchdog thread. The canary thread updates an event every 5 seconds, and the watchdog thread detects the update event. When the event is not updated for more than 10 seconds, then the watchdog thread considers that some real time tasks are consuming CPU resources. The watchdog thread will then try to demote priorities of the threads which are managed by rtkit-daemon (e.g. pulseaudio).The message, "The canary thread is apparently starving. Taking action." just indicates that the canary thread and/or watchdog thread are not able to run at that time. Determining why (if the issue is repeatable) requires investigation. Please note that if the issue was a once off occurrence the cause may not be able to be determined.

To determine what may be causing the issue please collect and review all of the data in the resolution section. If you are unable to determine the cause of the issue from that data please consider opening a case with Red Hat about the issue.


## Diagnostic Steps

- Users may see messages in the log where the process is pulseaudio, similar to;


```
rtkit-daemon[12345]: The canary thread is apparently starving. Taking action.
rtkit-daemon[12345]: Demoting known real-time threads.
rtkit-daemon[12345]: Successfully demoted thread 12345 of process 2345 (/usr/bin/pulseaudio).
rtkit-daemon[12345]: Demoted 1 threads.
```

`rtkit-daemon[12345]: The canary thread is apparently starving. Taking action.
rtkit-daemon[12345]: Demoting known real-time threads.
rtkit-daemon[12345]: Successfully demoted thread 12345 of process 2345 (/usr/bin/pulseaudio).
rtkit-daemon[12345]: Demoted 1 threads.`and/or


```
rtkit-daemon[2877]: The canary thread is apparently starving. Taking action.
rtkit-daemon[2877]: Demoting known real-time threads.
rtkit-daemon[2877]: Demoted 0 threads.
```

`rtkit-daemon[2877]: The canary thread is apparently starving. Taking action.
rtkit-daemon[2877]: Demoting known real-time threads.
rtkit-daemon[2877]: Demoted 0 threads.`- Product(s)
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux

- Component
- kernel

- Category
- Troubleshoot

- Tags
- hardware
- kernel
- rhel_6
- sound

This solution is part of Red Hat’s fast-track publication program, providing a huge library of solutions that Red Hat engineers have created while supporting our customers. To give you the knowledge you need the instant it becomes available, these articles may be presented in a raw and unedited form.


## Was this helpful?


## Get notified when this content is updated

Please wait...


## Comments

