# 3DS-LRDIMM configuration can cause slowdown, soft lockup, and hard lockup under heavy memory stress loads

- Comments
- Helpful
- Get notified when this content is updated.FollowPlease wait...


## Get notified when this content is updated.

Please wait...


# 3DS-LRDIMM configuration can cause slowdown, soft lockup, and hard lockup under heavy memory stress loads

- English
- Machine Translations
- Chinese
- Chinese, Traditional
- French
- German
- Italian
- Japanese
- Korean
- Portuguese
- Russian
- Spanish


## Environment

- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7.6
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.0
- Configured with 3DS-LRDIMMs


## Issue

- Systems with 3DS-LRDIMMs can slow down significantly under the heavy memory stress loads, and resulting in problems such as soft and hard lockups.


## Resolution

- Red Hat supports systems with 3DS-LRDIMM however. The replacement of the 3DS-LRDIMMs with standard DIMMs or LRDIMMs may be required in order to resolve the soft and hard lockup problems.
- Please consult your hardware vendor for further guidance.


## Root Cause

- 3DS-LRDIMM memory has both lower memory bandwidth and higher latency than standard DIMM memory.

- Product(s)
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux

- Component
- kernel

- Category
- Hardware Certification

This solution is part of Red Hat’s fast-track publication program, providing a huge library of solutions that Red Hat engineers have created while supporting our customers. To give you the knowledge you need the instant it becomes available, these articles may be presented in a raw and unedited form.


## Was this helpful?


## Get notified when this content is updated

Please wait...


## Comments

