# Cannot find kernel.softlockup_thresh sysctl parameter in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.1

- Comments
- Helpful4
- Get notified when this content is updated.FollowPlease wait...


## Get notified when this content is updated.

Please wait...


# Cannot find kernel.softlockup_thresh sysctl parameter in Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.1

- English
- Machine Translations
- Chinese
- Chinese, Traditional
- French
- German
- Italian
- Japanese
- Korean
- Portuguese
- Russian
- Spanish


## Environment

- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6.1


## Issue

- Where is kernel.softlockup_thresh in RHEL6.1? It was availiable in RHEL6.0.


## Resolution

'kernel.watchdog_thresh' sysctl parameter can be used instead of 'kernel.softlockup_thresh'.


## Root Cause

In RHEL6,  'watchdog' kernel process is implemented. From RHEL6.1, soft and hard lockups will be detected using the 'watchdog' process. The 'watchdog' process uses 'kernel.watchdog_thresh' kernel parameter as threshold limit. So the 'kernel.softlockup_thresh' is deprecated from RHEL6.1 onwards.

Following are the related patches that went in.

* Thu Jan 27 2011 Aristeu Rozanski <arozansk@redhat.com> [2.6.32-107.el6]- [x86] lockup detector: enable config options (Don Zickus) [669808]- [x86] lockup detector: Kconfig fixes to seperate hard and soft lockup options (Don Zickus) [669808]- [x86] NMI: Add back unknown_nmi_panic and nmi_watchdog sysctls (Don Zickus) [669808]- [x86] perf, arch: Cleanup perf-pmu init vs lockup-detector (Don Zickus) [669808]- [x86] nmi: Add in new nmi_watchdog/softlockup changes (Don Zickus) [669808]- [x86] Move notify_die from nmi.c to traps.c (Don Zickus) [669808]

- Tags
- hang

This solution is part of Red Hat’s fast-track publication program, providing a huge library of solutions that Red Hat engineers have created while supporting our customers. To give you the knowledge you need the instant it becomes available, these articles may be presented in a raw and unedited form.


## Was this helpful?


## Get notified when this content is updated

Please wait...


## Comments

