# RHEL7: Hard lockup was detected in swapper kernel thread

- Comments
- Helpful1
- Get notified when this content is updated.FollowPlease wait...


## Get notified when this content is updated.

Please wait...


# RHEL7: Hard lockup was detected in swapper kernel thread

- English
- Machine Translations
- Chinese
- Chinese, Traditional
- French
- German
- Italian
- Japanese
- Korean
- Portuguese
- Russian
- Spanish


## Environment

- Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 7
- kernel


## Issue

Hard lockup was detected on swapper kernel thread. It caused kernel panic.


```
<from vmcore-dmesg.txt>
  [5851047.421170]  [<ffffffff8105166c>] ? start_secondary+0x1fc/0x270
  [18446744073704143752.18446744073709352916] NMI watchdog: Watchdog detected hard LOCKUP on cpu 6
```

`<from vmcore-dmesg.txt>
  [5851047.421170]  [<ffffffff8105166c>] ? start_secondary+0x1fc/0x270
  [18446744073704143752.18446744073709352916] NMI watchdog: Watchdog detected hard LOCKUP on cpu 6`Please note that one of the time stamps if very much off.


## Resolution

- The remote service board or potentially existing hardware monitoring mechanisms of the system should be investigated, they might have hints on hardware problems.
- BIOS and firmware updates for the used hardware might be available. Maybe these should not directly be applied, but identifying newer versions and checking the changelog for entries which might be related to this crash is recommended.
- The hpet clock source was used on the affected system, /proc/cmdline had clocksource=hpet. If there is no specific reason for that, then switching to tsc might be worth trying. tsc is the default, running on the majority of RHEL systems.
- There are some known errata with regard to waking up the CPU from deep C-states and missing timer interrupts. Reportedly, that can be worked around by just disabling those deep C-states with kernel options like this:


```
idle=poll processor.max_cstate=1 intel_idle.max_cstate=0
```

`idle=poll processor.max_cstate=1 intel_idle.max_cstate=0`Applying these could be a workaround. Please note that this might come with side affects, like higher power consumption of the system as no deeper sleep states are entered any more.


## Root Cause

We think that the root cause of this issue is outside of the code base of RHEL, in firmware or hardware.

Analysis of the vmcore withcrashshowed that the observed hard lockup happened on the mwait CPU instruction.

`crash`
## Diagnostic Steps

The hard lockup reportedly happened on mwait CPU instruction:


```
crash> dis intel_idle+0xf3
0xffffffff8139d903 <intel_idle+0xf3>:   mwait  %rax,%rcx
```

`crash> dis intel_idle+0xf3
0xffffffff8139d903 <intel_idle+0xf3>:   mwait  %rax,%rcx`- Product(s)
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux

- Component
- kernel

- Tags
- rhel_7

This solution is part of Red Hat’s fast-track publication program, providing a huge library of solutions that Red Hat engineers have created while supporting our customers. To give you the knowledge you need the instant it becomes available, these articles may be presented in a raw and unedited form.


## Was this helpful?


## Get notified when this content is updated

Please wait...


## Comments

